src/content/blog/httpclient-trap.mdx, before:


# 🚀 Avoiding the `HttpClient` trap in .NET

This week I ran into an interesting error while working with `HttpClient` in .NET:  

> **"This instance has already started one or more requests. Properties can only be modified before sending the first request."**

At first glance, it’s confusing — especially if you’ve seen examples online where people just create a new `HttpClient`, set `BaseAddress`, add headers, and everything works fine.  

So why did it fail for me? 🤔  

👉 Because I’m using **`IHttpClientFactory`** (best practice in modern .NET).  
When you create a client via the factory, it’s **pooled and reused** behind the scenes. That means you **can’t change `BaseAddress` or `DefaultRequestHeaders` after the first request**.  

And that’s exactly what triggered the exception.  

---

### 🔑 The Solution: `HttpRequestMessage`
When you need **dynamic headers per request** (for example, a bearer token that changes), you should build the request like this:

```csharp
var request = new HttpRequestMessage(HttpMethod.Post, "api/endpoint");
request.Headers.Authorization = new AuthenticationHeaderValue("Bearer", token);

var response = await _httpClient.SendAsync(request);
```

Notice how the headers are added **to the request**, not the client.  
This way, you avoid mutating a pooled client while still reaping the benefits of `HttpClientFactory` (lifetime management, pooling, DNS refresh, etc.).

---

### 🔍 Why you don’t see this error in other examples
If you create `new HttpClient()` manually for every request, you won’t hit this error — because each instance is fresh.  
But that pattern is **not recommended**: it can exhaust sockets under load.  

That’s why `IHttpClientFactory` was introduced in .NET Core 2.1.  
It gives you proper lifecycle management and avoids socket exhaustion.  
The trade-off is: you must handle **dynamic request details** with `HttpRequestMessage`.  

---

✅ Takeaway:  
- Use `IHttpClientFactory` whenever possible.  
- Configure static settings (`BaseAddress`, `Accept`, etc.) in `AddHttpClient`.  
- Use `HttpRequestMessage` when you need **per-request headers**.  

This small shift saves you from hard-to-debug errors and keeps your code aligned with modern .NET practices.  

---

👉 Question for you:  
Have you also stumbled upon this `HttpClient` error? How did you handle it in your projects?

Commit message:

Include HttpClient trap article in blog

src/content/blog/httpclient-trap.mdx, after:


---
title: "Avoiding the HttpClient Trap in .NET: Best Practices with IHttpClientFactory"
date: "2024-02-01"
excerpt: "Learn how to avoid common HttpClient pitfalls when using IHttpClientFactory in .NET. Understand why you can't modify BaseAddress after the first request and how to handle dynamic headers properly."
tags: [".NET", "HttpClient", "IHttpClientFactory", "Best Practices", "C#"]
---

# 🚀 Avoiding the `HttpClient` trap in .NET

This week I ran into an interesting error while working with `HttpClient` in .NET:  

> **"This instance has already started one or more requests. Properties can only be modified before sending the first request."**

At first glance, it’s confusing — especially if you’ve seen examples online where people just create a new `HttpClient`, set `BaseAddress`, add headers, and everything works fine.  

So why did it fail for me? 🤔  

👉 Because I’m using **`IHttpClientFactory`** (best practice in modern .NET).  
When you create a client via the factory, it’s **pooled and reused** behind the scenes. That means you **can’t change `BaseAddress` or `DefaultRequestHeaders` after the first request**.  

And that’s exactly what triggered the exception.  

---

### 🔑 The Solution: `HttpRequestMessage`
When you need **dynamic headers per request** (for example, a bearer token that changes), you should build the request like this:

```csharp
var request = new HttpRequestMessage(HttpMethod.Post, "api/endpoint");
request.Headers.Authorization = new AuthenticationHeaderValue("Bearer", token);

var response = await _httpClient.SendAsync(request);
```

Notice how the headers are added **to the request**, not the client.  
This way, you avoid mutating a pooled client while still reaping the benefits of `HttpClientFactory` (lifetime management, pooling, DNS refresh, etc.).

---

### 🔍 Why you don’t see this error in other examples
If you create `new HttpClient()` manually for every request, you won’t hit this error — because each instance is fresh.  
But that pattern is **not recommended**: it can exhaust sockets under load.  

That’s why `IHttpClientFactory` was introduced in .NET Core 2.1.  
It gives you proper lifecycle management and avoids socket exhaustion.  
The trade-off is: you must handle **dynamic request details** with `HttpRequestMessage`.  

---

✅ Takeaway:  
- Use `IHttpClientFactory` whenever possible.  
- Configure static settings (`BaseAddress`, `Accept`, etc.) in `AddHttpClient`.  
- Use `HttpRequestMessage` when you need **per-request headers**.  

This small shift saves you from hard-to-debug errors and keeps your code aligned with modern .NET practices.  

---

👉 Question for you:  
Have you also stumbled upon this `HttpClient` error? How did you handle it in your projects?
